Scientific literacy is necessary for a functioning society in the modern age. Scientific literacy is not science education. 
A person educated in science can understand science; a scientifically literate person can do science. 
Scientific literacy empowers everyone who possesses it to be active contributors to their own health care, 
the quality of their food, water, and air, their very interactions with their own bodies and the complex world around them.

Biopunks experiment. We have questions, and we don't see the point in waiting around for someone else to answer them. 
Armed with curiosity and the scientific method, we formulate and test hypotheses in order to find answers to the questions 
that keep us awake at night. We publish our protocols and equipment designs, and share our bench experience, 
so that our fellow biopunks may learn from and expand on our methods, as well as reproducing one another's experiments to confirm validity.
To paraphrase Eric Hughes, "Our work is free for all to use, worldwide. We don't much care if you don't approve of our research topics." 
We are building on the work of the Cypherpunks who came before us to ensure that a widely dispersed research community cannot be shut down.

Biopunks deplore restrictions on independent research, for the right to arrive independently at an understanding of the world around oneself
is a fundamental human right. Curiosity knows no ethnic, gender, age, or socioeconomic boundaries, but the opportunity to satisfy that curiosity
all too often turns on economic opportunity, and we aim to break down that barrier. A thirteen-year-old kid in South Central Los Angeles has 
just as much of a right to investigate the world as does a university professor. If thermocyclers are too expensive to give one to every 
interested person, then we'll design cheaper ones and teach people how to build them.

Biopunks take responsibility for their research. We keep in mind that our subjects of interest are living organisms worthy of respect 
and good treatment, and we are acutely aware that our research has the potential to affect those around us. 
But we reject outright the admonishments of the precautionary principle, 
which is nothing more than a paternalistic attempt to silence researchers by inspiring fear of the unknown. 
When we work, it is with the betterment of the community in mind -- and that includes our community, your community, 
and the communities of people that we may never meet. We welcome your questions, 
and we desire nothing more than to empower you to discover the answers to them yourselves.

This video is from the Outlaw Biology? Conference at UCLA.
 http://outlawbiology.net/
